# Design, build, and orchestrate with modern practices

## DevOps

Essential DevOps practices include:

* Agile planning
* Continuous integration (CI)
* Continuous delivery (CD)
* Monitoring of application

DevOps tools

* Azure Boards - PBI, Kanban, backlogs, dashboards
* GitHub - build, deliver, share software, version control

## 1. Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD)

### Continuous Integration (CI)

The practice of building and testing code every time a team member commits changes to version control.

* Encourages code sharing
* Encourages unit testing
* Committing code triggers an automated build system, test, and validate
* Help identify bugs earlier
* Improve software quality

### Continuous Delivery (CD)

The process to build, test, configure and deploy from a build environment to a production environment.

* Multiple testing or staging environment create a release pipeline
* Automate the creation of infrastructure and deployment of a new build
* Support progressively longer-running activities of integration, load, and user acceptance testing.

### CI/CD

Continuous integration starts the continuous delivery process, and the CI/CD pipeline stages changes from each successive environment to the next upon successful completion of the tests that are defined at each stage.

### Azure Pipelines

A cloud service that you can use to automatically build and test your code project and make it available to others.

* Works with any language or project type
* Integrates with GitHub, GitHub Enterprise, Azure Repos, and other version control systems.
* Combines CI and CD - constantly and consistently test and build your code and ship it to any target

### GitHub Actions

Can also be used to build CI/CD capabilities in your GitHub repositories.

## 2. Microservices

A microservices architecture consists of services that are small, independent, and loosely coupled.

* Each service can be deployed and scaled independently.
* Microservice architectures are often adopted for new applications that are adopting DevOps practices.
* Each service is typically responsible for its own data. Its data structure is isolated, so upgrades or changes to schema aren't dependent on other services.
* Requests for data are typically handled through APIs
* They can use different technology stacks, frameworks, and SDKs for each service
* Often see containers or serverless technologies used for their implementation
* CI/CD is frequently used to increase the speed and quality of development activities

## 3. Environment consistency between all environment (Development, test, and production)

Your environments should consistent between Development, test, and production
Through automation, you can spin up and tear down environments as needed, which can be included as part of your CI/CD processes.