# Use monitoring and analytics to gain operational insights

**Monitoring** is the act of collecting and analyzing data to determine the **performance, health, and availability** of your business **applications**, and the resources on which they depend. It also helps you increase your uptime by **proactively notifying** you of **critical issues**.

3 areas of focus:

1. Core monitoring
    * Azure Monitor
    * Advisor
    * Service Health
    * Activity Log

2. Deep infrastructure monitoring
    * Log Analytics
    * Management Solutions
    * Service Map
    * Network Monitoring

3. Deep application monitoring
    * Application Insights

4. Shared Capabilities
    * Alerts
    * Dashboards
    * Metric Explorer

## 1. Core monitoring

You can think of this as monitoring **what is happening with your resources at the Azure platform level**.
Insight into things like:

* The health of the Azure platform
* Changes being made to your resources
* Performance metrics
* Ability to monitor the basic pieces
* Built in to Azure
* Take little to no configuration to enable and setup.

### 1.1 Activity logging

**Every change** that is submitted **to the Azure** platform **is tracked** in the Azure **Activity Log**, which gives you the ability to trace any action that is taken on your resources, will contain detialed on activities to help you answer questions like:

* Who has attached a disk to this virtual machine?
* When was this machine shut down?
* Who changed the load balancer configuration?
* Why did the autoscale operation on my virtual machine scale set fail?

Retained for 90 days (can archive to storage account, or send to Log Analytics)

### 1.2 Health of cloud services

Staying informed of the health of Azure services will help you understand if and when an issue that is impacting an Azure service is impacting your environment.

**Azure Service Health** provides this insight, **identifies any issues** with Azure services that **might affect your application**, also helps you plan for **scheduled maintenance**.

### 1.3 Metrics and diagnostics

**Azure Monitor** enables core monitoring for Azure services by allowing the collection, aggregation, and visualization of metrics, activity logs, and diagnostic logs.

### 1.4 Recommendations on best practices

* Greater availability
* Reduced cost
* Improved security

**Azure Advisor** can help by keeping an eye out for potential performance, cost, high availability, or security issues within your resources.

## 2. Deep infrastructure monitoring

When you're designing a monitoring strategy, it's important to include every component in the application chain, so you can correlate events across services and resources.

With this data in **Log Analytics**, you can query the raw data for **troubleshooting, root cause identification, and auditing purposes**.

## 3. Deep application monitoring

**Application Insights** provides telemetry collection, query, and visualization capabilities.

An application performance monitoring solution will help you:

* Monitor usage, performance, and availability
* To respond to failure much faster
