# Use automation to reduce effort and error

## 1. Infrastructure as code

Infrastructure as code (IaC) **is the management of infrastructure** - such as networks, virtual machines, load balancers, and connection topology - **in a descriptive model**, using a versioning system that is **similar to what is used for source code**.

* Generates the same environment every time it is applied.
* Solve the problem of environment drift

When automating the deployment of services and infrastructure, there are two different approaches you can take:

* Imperative - you explicitly state the commands that are executed to produce the outcome you are looking for.
* Declarative - you specify what you want the outcome to be instead of specifying how you want it done.

### 1.1 Imperative automation

With imperative automation, we're specifying *how* things are to be done.
**Typically done programmatically** through a scripting language or SDK.
For Azure resources, we could use the **Azure CLI** or Azure **PowerShell**.

**With this approach, we're able to fully automate our infrastructure.** We can provide areas for input and output, and can ensure that the same commands are executed every time. By automating our resources, we've taken the manual steps out of the process, making resource administration operationally more efficient.

### 1.2 Declarative automation

With declarative automation, we're specifying *what* we want our result to be, leaving the details of how it's done to the system we're using.

On Azure, is done through Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates.
ARM templates have 4 sections:

* **Parameters** handle input to be used within the template
* **Variables** provide a way to store values for use throughout the template
* **Resources** are the things that are being created
* **Output** provide details to the user of what was created

## VM images vs. post-deployment configuration

it's quite likely there's additional configuration that you need to take care of before the VM can actually serve its intended purpose. For example:

* Additional disks might need formatting
* The VM might need to be joined to a domain
* An agent for a management software package might need to be installed

There are two common strategies that you can use for the configuration work:

* **Custom images**, an image that created from the VM that already has some configuration, This image can then be used as a base for deploying other new VM.
* **Post-deployment scripting** typically leverages a basic base image, and then relies on scripting or a configuration management platform to perform the necessary configuration after the VM is deployed.

Each of these approaches has a few specific and some shared considerations to keep in mind.

* When using images, you'll need to ensure there's a process to handle image updates, security patches, and inventory management of the images themselves.
* With **post-deployment scripting**, **build times can be extended**
* With **both approaches**, you'll want to ensure that you address configuration drift; as new configuration is rolled out, you'll need to ensure that existing systems are updated accordingly.

## Automation of operational tasks

Once your solutions are up and running, there are ongoing operational activities that can also be automated. 
Examples of this automation might include:

* Periodically searching for orphaned disks
* Installing the latest security patches on VMs
* Searching for and shutting down virtual machines in off-hours
* Running daily reports and producing a dashboard to report to senior management

## Automating development environments

You can use Azure DevTest Labs to deploy VMs with all of the correct tools and repositories that your developers need.
Developers working on multiple services can switch between development environments without having to provision a new VM themselves.
