# Testing strategies for your application

A main tenet of a DevOps practice to achieve system reliability is the **shift left principle**. If your process for developing and deploying an application is depicted as a series of steps that are listed from left to right, **your testing should be shifted as much as possible toward the beginning of your process** (e.g. to the left), and not just at the very end of your process (e.g. to the right).

Testing should occur on both **application code** and **infrastructure code**, and they should both be subject to the same quality controls. The environment where applications are running should be version-controlled, and deployed through the same mechanisms as application code.

There are multiple stages at which tests can be performed in the life cycle of code, and each type of testing has several considerations that are important for you to understand. In this unit, you can find a summary from several of the different tests that you should consider when you're developing and deploying applications.

## 1. Automated Testing

Automating tests is the best way to make sure that they are executed. Depending on how frequently your automated tests are performed, they are typically limited in duration and scope, and the following descriptions will list some of the things you need to consider when creating your test strategy.

## 2. Unit Testing

* Typically **run by each new version of code that is committed into your version control system.**
* Unit Tests should be extensive (should cover ideally 100% of the code)
* Typically under **30 seconds**
* Verify the syntax correctness of application code
* Verify Resource Manager templates or Terraform configurations, that the code is following best practices
* Should be applied both to **application code** and **infrastructure code.**

## 3. Smoke Testing

* Usually take longer than Unit testing
* Usually run in **less that 15 minutes**
* Do not verify the interoperability of your different components with each other
* Verify that **each component can be correctly built**
* Verify that **each component meets your criteria for expected functionality and performance**.
* Possibly testing the deployment of infrastructure in a test environment.

## 4. Integration Testing

* **Determines whether your components can interact with each other as they should**.
* Usually take longer than smoke testing
* They are sometimes executed less frequently that smoke testing
* Detect interoperability issues between application components

## 5. Manual Testing

* More expensive than automated testing
* Used less frequently than automated testing
* **Fundamental for the correct functioning of the DevOps feedback loop**
* Used to **correct errors before they become too expensive** to repair, or before they cause customer dissatisfaction.

## 6. Acceptance Testing

There are many different ways of confirming that the application is doing what it should.

### 6.1 Blue/Green deployments

* Deploy new version of application in parallel to the existing one.
* Can start redirecting your clients to the new version;
**If everything goes well**, you will decommission the old version.
**If there is any problem** with the new deployment, you can always redirect your clients back to the older deployment.

### 6.2 Canary releases

* Deploy new version of application to a select group of users
**If these users are satisfied** with the new functionality, you can extend it to the rest of your user community.

In this scenario we are talking about releasing functionality, and not necessarily about deploying a new version of the application.

### 6.3 A/B testing

* A/B testing is similar to canary release testing
* A/B testing focuses on evaluating the effectiveness of two similar ways of achieving the same goal. (but while canary releases focus on mitigating risk)
* You could use some metrics to see which layout works better for your application goals.

Deployment slot functionality in the Azure App Service allows you to have two different versions of the same application running at the same time, and you can redirect your users to one version or the other.

## 7. Stress tests

* Test whether your application and infrastructure code will **both be able to adapt to changing load conditions**.
* For example, if there is a spike in user activity, you need to be confident that your application and infrastructure will scale automatically to meet the increased demand.
* During your stress tests, it is critical to that **you monitor all the components** of the system in order to **identify whether there are any scale limitations**.

It is equally important to verify that after the stress test is concluded, your infrastructure scales back down to its normal condition in order to keep your costs under control.

## 8. Fault injection

Your application should be resilient to infrastructure failures, and **introducing faults in the underlying infrastructure and observing how your application behaves** is fundamental for increasing the trust in your redundancy mechanisms.

For example:

* Ungracefully shutting down infrastructure components
* Degrading the performance of certain elements such as network equipment
* Purposely introducing faults in the environment are ways of verifying that your application is going to continue to behave or react as expected, should these situations ever occur in real life.

Most companies use a controlled way of injecting faults into the system; although if your are confident with your application resiliency, you could use automated frameworks. Chaos engineering is a practice adopted by some organizations to identify areas where faults may occur by purposefully making key pieces of infrastructure unavailable.

## 9. Security tests

* Testing of your application for security vulnerabilities.
* You should regularly perform security tests against your application to identify any application vulnerabilities that are introduced through code defects or through software dependencies.
* These tests can include **automated security scans** to test against **common vulnerabilities**, such as **cross-site scripting or SQL injection**. Your security tests can also include red team exercises, where security teams attempt to compromise your application.

Use the results from these tests to provide feedback through your entire development process, and resolve any security issues that you find in your code or software dependencies.
